URL: https://spectralcodex.com/daxi-jianxin-theater/
Daxi Jianxin Theater 大溪建新大戲院 | Spectral Codex Skip to Content Spectral Codex Search Form Search Search for terms enterd into the associated input field Highlights Regions Open Submenu Close Submenu Taiwan Open Submenu Close Submenu Keelung Taipei New Taipei Taoyuan Hsinchu Taichung Changhua Nantou Yunlin Chiayi Tainan Kaohsiung Pingtung Taitung Hualien Yilan Hong Kong Vietnam Thailand Malaysia Philippines Japan South Korea Collections Open Submenu Close Submenu Old Theaters of Taiwan 台灣的老戲院 Taiwan Urbex 台灣城市探險 Taiwan Cultural Assets 官方認證文化資產 Taiwan Unrecognized Cultural Assets 不為人知的文化資產 Taiwan Temple Culture 台灣的寺廟文化 Japanese Colonial Era 日治時代 KMT Authoritarian Era 白色恐怖時期 Series Open Submenu Close Submenu Huadong Valley Ride 2018 花東縱谷自行車旅行 Taiwan Summer Road Trip 2017 台灣中南部機車之旅 Southern Taiwan Ride 2015 南台灣自行車旅行 Nantou Road Trip 2015 南投縣機車之旅 About Open Submenu Close Submenu Facebook Flickr Instagram Frequently Asked Questions External Links Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Donate! Daxi Jianxin Theater 大溪建新大戲院 Places / May 11, 2021 / Updated: April 5, 2023 (V1.1) Jiànxīn Theater (建新大戲院) is located in Yuánshùlín ( 員樹林 ), a suburban area on the western outskirts of Daxi in Taoyuan , Taiwan . Business records indicate an inception date of 1977, but not much is known about this theater apart from that. The last recorded transaction in 2000 sets an upper bound on when it was operating, but likely went out of business in the early 1990s, when most of the rest of Taiwan’s cinema industry collapsed. It now enjoys a second life as a parking garage for the nearby factories and residences. View Image Details A glimpse of an old movie theater from the main road running through Yuanshulin. Aside from business records, I found no other references to this obscure theater prior to my visit in January 2020. Mere months later, The Thief of Places published an insightful article about Yuanshulin , suggesting the establishment of the nearby Zhōngzhènglǐng Campus (中正嶺校區) of the National Defense University (國防大學) in 1968 explains the presence of a theater in this somewhat unusual spot, far from the old entertainment district in Daxi 1 . This hypothesis checks out; the thousands of soldiers stationed in the area would have yearned for some form of entertainment in their downtime, and while there probably would have been a cinema on campus, there almost certainly would have been some demand for alternatives to military programming 2 . View Image Details An oblique view of the former theater in Yuanshulin. Some kind of factory is operated out of the space to the left. View Image Details The purely functional facade of Jianxin Theater belies its origins as a country cinema constructed to serve soldiers at a nearby military base. The metal frame would have once displayed movie posters. This theater is set back from the main road a ways, and you wouldn’t be likely to chance upon it if you didn’t already know it was there. A metal frame mounted on the front of the theater indicates that movie posters would have been displayed—but you’d have to know exactly where to look if you were just wandering by. Nowadays the interior of the theater is used for parking—and spaces are for rent, as noted by a red banner hanging beneath the awning out front. View Image Details A first, hesitant glimpse inside the old theater reveals a completely renovated space converted into a parking garage. View Image Details Nothing remains of the original stage or screen. Initially i wasn’t successful in gaining access to the old theater—nobody was around when I went to inquire at the factory office next door, and seeing as how it obviously wasn’t abandoned I wasn’t about to jump through the window. Just as I was leaving the metal shutters of the automated garage door began to clatter, and after waving my camera around and receiving a polite nod from a passing employee, I ducked inside for a quick look around. View Image Details A short stairway provides access to the former projection booth. Those staggered holes allowed for the projectors to be aimed correctly. View Image Details An oblique view of the far side of the projection booth reveals a hidden icon. The interior of the theater has been mostly stripped—and nothing remains of the former stage or screen. Similarly, there was no evidence of any ticket booth or snack bar; everything on the ground floor had been cleared to accommodate automobiles. Turning a corner, I climbed a set of stairs leading to what would have been a balcony level, and was delighted to find most of the projection room intact—albeit without any projectors. View Image Details Inside the projection room, which is now empty of almost all artifacts. Love notes decorate the walls. Ultimately there’s nothing too special about this utilitarian countryside theater, but I’m always glad to add another site to my ever-growing collection of vintage Taiwanese cinemas. Although its heritage value might be low, this is the only remaining theater still standing in Daxi 3 , a district that has otherwise done quite well in preserving its many historic buildings. Local geography also plays a role. Tens of thousands of years ago the Dàhàn River (大漢溪) carved a canyon out of the Taoyuan Plateau (桃園台地) as it was captured by the Taipei Basin (臺北盆地) to the northeast. Daxi proper is perched on a plateau on the east side of this valley whereas Yuanshulin is located to the west. Although not far from each other by line of sight, coming down from the escarpment requires quite a detour, adding to travel times. ↩ Military bases in Taiwan were usually built with large halls to accommodate speeches, ceremonies, and other events. These halls, typically named Zhōngzhèng Hall (中正堂) to memorialize former president Chiang Kai-shek , were also used to screen films, albeit of a somewhat more patriotic nature than might be found at privately-owned cinemas. I’m not entirely sure what sort of films were shown at Jianxin Theater but there’s a good chance they specialized in whatever wasn’t being screened on campus. ↩ Since I might not have another opportunity to itemize the former movie theaters of Daxi, here’s what I’ve uncovered: Daxi Theater (大溪戲院), possibly renamed Tiānxiáng Theater (天祥戲院) as some point (or that might have been another theater entirely), both on Zhōngyāng Road (中央路); Fúrén Theater (福仁戲院), named after, but not necessarily located adjecent to, a famous local temple on Hépíng Road (和平路); Guójì Theater (國際戲院) on Kāngzhuāng Road (康莊路), demolished around 2008; and finally Zhōngxìng Theater (中興戲院), another theater located next to a military base far from the center of town. ↩ Collections KMT Authoritarian Era 白色恐怖時期 / Old Theaters of Taiwan 台灣的老戲院 Keywords Urbex / Theaters / Disused / Concrete Regions Daxi › Taoyuan › Taiwan Cancel Write a Comment Comment Markdown and basic HTML are both allowed in the comments. Name Email Web Site (URL) Save my details in this browser for future use on this site Your details are being saved in your browser Clear Data Your email address will not be published; required fields are marked Post Comment Related Guanshan Zhonghua Theater 中華大戲院 Places / May 6, 2019 Huaguo Theater 華國戲院 Places / April 30, 2016 Jinxing Theater 金星大戲院 Places / October 25, 2020 Keelung Dahua Theater 基隆大華戲院 Places / November 1, 2018 Zicheng Theater 自成大戲院 Places / April 20, 2022 Dawu Theater 大武戲院 Places / August 13, 2016 Donggong Theater 東宮戲院 Places / January 6, 2017 Beidou Yuandong Theater 北斗遠東戲院 Places / January 9, 2017 Zhongli Xinming Theater 中壢新明戲院 Places / January 28, 2016 Tainan Xinjianguo Theater 台南新建國戲院 Places / July 26, 2017 Zhongsen Theater 中森戲院 Places / December 4, 2016 Xiluo Huasheng Theater 西螺華聲戲院 Places / July 31, 2017 Previous Next Recent Posts Miaoli Guoxing Theater 苗栗國興戲院 Miaoli Theater 苗栗戲院 Tainan Second Air Force New Village 台南二空眷村 Nanxi Huazhou Theater 楠西華洲戲院 Alian Theater 阿蓮戲院 Toubiankeng Police Station 頭汴坑警察官吏派出所 Postcards From Linnei 林內明信片 Kouhu Theater 口湖戲院 Jinjin Theater 金金大戲院 Ruimao Theater 瑞茂戲院 Zicheng Theater 自成大戲院 Huadong Valley Ride 2018: Taitung City Search Form Search Search for terms enterd into the associated input field Copyright Notice All content on this website is under copyright control unless otherwise noted . No unauthorized reuse of any original material appearing here is permitted. See the terms of use page for more details; for licensing inquiries, please contact me directly. Donations Welcome Enjoy what you’ve found here? You’re welcome to support indie blogging and buy me a coffee via Patreon ! Facebook Flickr Instagram About Terms of Use Contact ©2009–2021 Spectral Codex . Powered by WordPress and Spectral Codex 7.4.0. Top

URL: https://spectralcodex.com/zhongli-dadong-theater/
Zhongli Dadong Theater 中壢大東戲院 | Spectral Codex Skip to Content Spectral Codex Search Form Search Search for terms enterd into the associated input field Highlights Regions Open Submenu Close Submenu Taiwan Open Submenu Close Submenu Keelung Taipei New Taipei Taoyuan Hsinchu Taichung Changhua Nantou Yunlin Chiayi Tainan Kaohsiung Pingtung Taitung Hualien Yilan Hong Kong Vietnam Thailand Malaysia Philippines Japan South Korea Collections Open Submenu Close Submenu Old Theaters of Taiwan 台灣的老戲院 Taiwan Urbex 台灣城市探險 Taiwan Cultural Assets 官方認證文化資產 Taiwan Unrecognized Cultural Assets 不為人知的文化資產 Taiwan Temple Culture 台灣的寺廟文化 Japanese Colonial Era 日治時代 KMT Authoritarian Era 白色恐怖時期 Series Open Submenu Close Submenu Huadong Valley Ride 2018 花東縱谷自行車旅行 Taiwan Summer Road Trip 2017 台灣中南部機車之旅 Southern Taiwan Ride 2015 南台灣自行車旅行 Nantou Road Trip 2015 南投縣機車之旅 About Open Submenu Close Submenu Facebook Flickr Instagram Frequently Asked Questions External Links Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Donate! Zhongli Dadong Theater 中壢大東戲院 Places / September 19, 2018 / Updated: November 12, 2020 (V1.1) Zhongli is home to a surprising number of disused and abandoned cinemas, relics of a lost age of theater in this conurbation of half a million sprawling across the central Taoyuan Plateau 桃園台地 . Decades ago there were nearly two dozen standalone movie theaters in town—but only Zhongyuan Theater 中源大戲院 , one of two in Taiwan still displaying hand-painted movie posters, clings to life as of 2018. Most of the others have been renovated beyond recognition or demolished, but several more are derelict, hard-worn subjects of entropy. Among these relics there are none more alluring than the imposing Dàdōng Theater 大東戲院 (literally the “Great Eastern Theater”), former anchor of Zhongli’s long-vanished Cinema Street 戲院街. View Image Details The brutal exterior of the Great Eastern Theater at dawn. View Image Details Five dead eyes gazing at the street and a poster for V for Vendetta (2005). I chanced upon Dadong Theater while wandering around Zhongli sometime in late 2015. I was in town to search for an apartment—and to get a feel for what would eventually become my winter residence . Straying from the brightly-lit streets of the commercial district west of the train station I soon noticed this fortress-like structure looming over a dark intersection. At that time I had only recently acquired an interest in Taiwanese movie theaters so it seemed like a serendipitous discovery. I resolved to return—and mere weeks later found myself creeping into the dimly-lit lobby, ready to elucidate the mysteries of a movie theater utterly detached from the human world for nearly a decade. View Image Details The dark entrance, light seeping in through the metal shutters. The outlines of a snack bar are barely discernible in the murky gloom. View Image Details Newspaper cutouts, regulations, and Buddhist charms on the back wall of the first projection room. View Image Details A trailer for Batman Begins , released in 2005. View Image Details A total mess on the floor of the first projection room. Business records indicate Dadong Theater was founded in 1956. I harbour some doubts about whether the physical structure of the theater is quite so old—there’s a good chance it was renovated or moved into a newer building in the 1960s or 1970s, but little information exists to corroborate such speculation. What I’ve gleaned from nostalgic threads on Facebook and PTT suggest that Datong Theater was one of several cinemas along this stretch of road at the heart of Zhongli’s old entertainment district 1 . Many Zhongli residents recall the buzz and excitement of seeing Titanic (1997) at Dadong Theater, but it later became a second-run theater (二輪戲院) with discounted tickets in its dying days. View Image Details The theater contains a full set of original projectors staring into the nothingness. This one is marked “bùdòng 不動 ”, or “don’t move”. View Image Details A closer look at the xenon arc lamp inside one of the projectors. I’ve been informed these bulbs are delicate and may explode if handled roughly. View Image Details Inside the ground floor theater, a dank place of mold, dust, and water damage. The approximate date of closure can be determined from the films advertised outside and a calendar found in one of the projection rooms. Both lines of evidence indicate the final showing must have been sometime in the spring of 2006. The building was sealed thereafter—and I have a strong suspicion I may have been the first person to set foot inside since the final curtain call. The access point was a wooden door that had fallen apart after years of exposure to the elements—but it was only open for a brief period of time, and has since been sealed by a metal barrier. I made multiple visits while it was feasible to do so, sometimes with company. As always, we were respectful, abiding by the urban explorer’s code: take nothing but photographs, leave nothing but footprints . View Image Details The ceiling collapsed at some interminable point in the past. View Image Details Beautiful patterns of decay on the walls of the old theater. View Image Details An emergency exit in the old theater. From the ground floor theater it is possible to access an empty basement level. View Image Details A perilous washroom on the second floor of the theater. One wrong step and you’ll be over the edge. View Image Details Inside another theater deep within the building. This one is far removed from the elements and is fairly well-preserved, red velvet drapes and all. View Image Details Another look at one of several projectors deep within the confines of the old theater. Unlike many other theaters I’ve explored this one is a place of darkness, with no natural light except in the office and lobby at the front of the building. Although there are numerous leaks throughout the building—some of which have led to the decay and collapse of parts of the internal structure—the rooftop remains more or less intact. Mold flourishes through the building and large Huntsman spiders stalk the dark corridors for whatever prey they might find. Deep within the building there are no sounds, only a strong, steady silence far removed from the realm of human activity. View Image Details We become ghosts on film, shrouded in smoke. View Image Details Curtain controls. View Image Details Time stands still. View Image Details Film reels on the wall. View Image Details Nothing true in this haunted hall of mirrors. View Image Details Another small cinema in the upper reaches of the building. View Image Details An interesting poster to find while stalking through the dark depths of the abandoned theater. View Image Details Looking into the guts of the machine in a utility room near the front of the building. View Image Details Archaic data entry device. Looks closely and you’ll see phonetic and radical Chinese overlays. View Image Details A satchel full of old tickets. View Image Details Fancy meeting you here, Bingo (1991). View Image Details Huntsman spider in the darkness. View Image Details The front office by day. View Image Details Portrait of a vanished nationalist . View Image Details A standard-issue phone found in many abandoned theaters. View Image Details Inside one of the upper projection rooms at the front of the building, the only place that ever sees any sunlight. There is no future but destruction for a theater like this. It has little historic value, despite running for half a century, and I would expect it to be demolished in the coming years as the Taoyuan Metro expands into the city, revitalizing the area and raising property values. These images document the last vestiges of an era already disappearing into history. View Image Details One last glance at this haunting cinematic fortress. If you’re curious about the movie theaters of Zhongli I encourage you to read my reports about Zhongyuan Theater 中源大戲院 and Xinming Theater 新明戲院 . Traces of several other theaters remain around the city but there are none more important than these three. More photos and information in Chinese can be found here , here , and here . Finally, I should emphasize these photos were taken years ago and this theater is no longer accessible . Update : as of late 2020 this theater is being dismantled. Dadong Theater was located diagonally across from Yíngōng Theater 銀宮戲院 and in the immediate vicinity of Guójì Theater 國際戲院 and the eponymous Zhongli Theater 中壢戲院. All the others were demolished long ago. ↩ Collections KMT Authoritarian Era 白色恐怖時期 / Old Theaters of Taiwan 台灣的老戲院 / Urban Decay 城市衰敗 Keywords Urbex / Highlights / Theaters / Nocturnal Regions Zhongli › Taoyuan › Taiwan 1 Comment Ian Reply September 20, 2018, 4:56am Nice shots. It’s pretty intact, all things considered. As a former projectionist, one thing that stands out is the fact that there appear to be three projectors, when only two are needed for most films. Could be they needed a backup, they ran prerolls on a separate projector (instead of splicing them onto the beginning of the first reel) or there was one projection booth for two separate theaters. The projectors also have ductwork for removing heat or cooling the machines. I never saw these in the Boston area but we also didn’t have subtropical conditions to work in. The bench behind the projectors has rewinding machines but I don’t see any obvious splicing areas, usually a metal groove to hold the film and a diagonal slot where the razor goes through, and sometimes some sort of tape dispenser. Cancel Write a Comment Comment Markdown and basic HTML are both allowed in the comments. Name Email Web Site (URL) Save my details in this browser for future use on this site Your details are being saved in your browser Clear Data Your email address will not be published; required fields are marked Post Comment Related Zhongli Xinming Theater 中壢新明戲院 Places / January 28, 2016 Zhongyuan Theater 中源大戲院 Places / January 18, 2016 Postcards From Zhongli 中壢明信片 Travelogues / May 17, 2016 Guobin Commercial Building 國賓商業大樓 Places / February 26, 2018 Xiluo Huasheng Theater 西螺華聲戲院 Places / July 31, 2017 Dawu Theater 大武戲院 Places / August 13, 2016 Donggong Theater 東宮戲院 Places / January 6, 2017 Zhongsen Theater 中森戲院 Places / December 4, 2016 Huaguo Theater 華國戲院 Places / April 30, 2016 Beidou Yuandong Theater 北斗遠東戲院 Places / January 9, 2017 Yonghe Theater 永和大戲院 Places / July 16, 2016 Hsin Kang Theater 新港戲院 Places / July 27, 2017 Previous Next Recent Posts Miaoli Guoxing Theater 苗栗國興戲院 Miaoli Theater 苗栗戲院 Tainan Second Air Force New Village 台南二空眷村 Nanxi Huazhou Theater 楠西華洲戲院 Alian Theater 阿蓮戲院 Toubiankeng Police Station 頭汴坑警察官吏派出所 Postcards From Linnei 林內明信片 Kouhu Theater 口湖戲院 Jinjin Theater 金金大戲院 Ruimao Theater 瑞茂戲院 Zicheng Theater 自成大戲院 Huadong Valley Ride 2018: Taitung City Search Form Search Search for terms enterd into the associated input field Copyright Notice All content on this website is under copyright control unless otherwise noted . No unauthorized reuse of any original material appearing here is permitted. See the terms of use page for more details; for licensing inquiries, please contact me directly. Donations Welcome Enjoy what you’ve found here? You’re welcome to support indie blogging and buy me a coffee via Patreon ! Facebook Flickr Instagram About Terms of Use Contact ©2009–2021 Spectral Codex . Powered by WordPress and Spectral Codex 7.4.0. Top

